
Snowflake architecture:
Snowflake’s architecture is a unique hybrid of traditional shared-disk and shared-nothing database architectures, designed specifically for the cloud. It separates storage, compute, and cloud services into three distinct, independently scalable layers.

Database Storage (Storage Layer): AWS S3, BLOB, GCP
Query Processing (Compute Layer): virtual warehouses (MPP compute cluster)
Cloud Services (Brain Layer): manages authentication, infrastructure, metadata, security, and query optimization.

Standard and Snowpark-Optimized:
Standard for SQL
Snowpark-Optimized for snowpark.

Warehouse Sizing (T-Shirt Sizes): X-Small to 6X-Large.

Database types:
Standard (Permanent) Databases: full data protection including time travel upto 90 days and Fail-safe.
Transient Databases: no permanent storage (kind of staging), time travel 1 day, no fail-safe.
Temporary: Session base, once session end will drop automatically.


On-Demand storage vs capacity storage:
On-demand pay for usage month to month 
Capacity storage: pay for usage up front.



Internal stage:
User Stage (@~):    allocated to each user for temporary storage, inaccessible by other users.
Table Stage (@%table_name): Automatically created for every table, this stage allows multiple users to stage files, but data can only be loaded into that specific table.
Named Internal Stage (@my_stage): ) that provides maximum flexibility. These stages can be accessed by multiple users and used to load data into one or more tables. 

$1, $2 column names access from stage --> because no table.
$6 column is not null values shows.

METADATA$FILENAME: Returns the name of the staged data file each row belongs to, including the full path within the stage.
METADATA$FILE_ROW_NUMBER: Returns the sequential row number for each record within its specific staged data file.s

Task: scheduling a code.
default task run only one sql command.
in order to run multiple a procedure need to be created.

scheduling in timezone using cron SCHEDULE = 'USING CRON 0 2 * * * UTC'

Task once created it is suspended mode.
execute resume command.  ALTER TASK my_task RESUME;




put command: auto_compression, source_compression, overwrite.
get command:
loading and unloading using copy command.


External stage:
create storage integration.
create stage and add above integration.




Slow Query Performance:
When you notice that a query is running slowly, check whether an overloaded warehouse is causing the query to compete for resources or get queued:
•	If the running query load is high or there’s queuing, consider starting a separate warehouse and moving queued queries to that warehouse. Alternatively, if you are using multi-cluster warehouses, you could change your multi-cluster settings to add additional clusters to handle higher concurrency going forward.
•	If the running query load is low and query performance is slow, you could resize the warehouse to provide more compute resources. You would need to restart the query once all the new resources were fully provisioned to take advantage of the added resources.


Time-Travel:
Snowflake Time Travel is a continuous data protection (CDP) feature that allows users to access, query, and restore historical data that has been changed or deleted within a defined retention period.


Fail-safe:
7 days after Time Travel ends, Snowflake keeps a read-only copy internally for disaster recovery.

Fail-safe: Snowflake can restore the table if something went catastrophically wrong.



Core Capabilities:
Query Historical Data
Restore Dropped Objects
Cloning Past States
Data Recovery



Zero-copy cloning:
copy entire DB in second include schema, tables ..
Only incurring new storage costs when data is modified in the clone. 

Ex:
Consider Table-A and its cloned snapshot of Table-B.
MP-1, MP-2, MP-3 pointing to same micro partition.

Micro-partitions in Snowflake are immutable i.e., once created lasts in the same state until table is dropped. Hence, for any change in the data of a micro-partition, a new micro-partition is created with updated changes and metadata will point to the newly created micro partition. The older partition is retained for time-travel and Fail-safe purposes


Tables:
Temporary tables: Session base
Transient tables: regualr table,  Persist until explicitly dropped and are available to all users with the appropriate privileges.
Permanent tables: same as transient table only difference is fail safe is availble here.


Dynamic table:
It stores the results of a query, but unlike a regular table, it updates automatically as the underlying source data changes.
Think of it as a self-updating, incrementally refreshed table.


CREATE DYNAMIC TABLE daily_sales
AS
SELECT
    DATE(order_date) AS day,
    SUM(amount) AS total_sales
FROM orders
GROUP BY DATE(order_date);

As new rows are inserted into orders, Snowflake automatically updates daily_sales.
No manual INSERT or UPDATE is needed.


diff b/w view and dynamic table.

dynamic table physically stored     
Snowflake updates incrementally as source tables change.


 view virtual table does not exist.
 here also if any record insert into source table view also get updated but this is not going be done automatically.
when we query view only source data will reflect in the view.


Event Table:
In Snowflake, an event table is a special type of table designed to store event data generated by the system or applications, mainly for observability and monitoring.

Example Use Cases:
Tracking failures in data pipelines
Monitoring query performance
Capturing logs from Snowflake apps
Auditing system activity.


Regular table vs Event table:
regular table:
need to create a table with columns.
user defined schema


Event table:
only table no field, snowflake will take care of field. it already exist in the event.
event based, example procedure start, complete, error all can be tracked.
System-defined (fixed structure) schema.


External Tables:
In Snowflake, an external table lets you query data stored outside Snowflake (like in cloud storage) without loading it into Snowflake tables.

Data lied in the cloud storage(S3, ADLS, GCP) a stage going to be created in snowflake and an external table is created.
Here only external table strcuture exist in snowflake not the data (only metadata).

CREATE STAGE my_stage  URL = 's3://my-bucket/data/';
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE ext_sales ( order_id STRING AS (value:order_id::STRING), amount NUMBER AS (value:amount::NUMBER))
WITH LOCATION = @my_stage  FILE_FORMAT = (TYPE = JSON);
SELECT * FROM ext_sales;

In these queries no worries data is getting loaded into snowflake only stage is getting created and using that path to query it.

Use cases:
Raw logs land in S3
External table reads them
Then you transform and load into internal tables for analytics.


Semantic view:
create a view on top of the table, and instead of querying it directly (SQL format) business team get the information in business teams
ex: revenue by region, revenue by category.....


Merge statement: merge into tgt using src on tgt.id = src.id when matched then update      when not matched insert statement.

stream:
In Snowflake, a stream is used to track changes (CDC – Change Data Capture) in a table—like inserts, updates, and deletes.

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE sales (id INT, amount NUMBER);
CREATE OR REPLACE STREAM sales_stream ON TABLE sales;   -- now it kind of streaming data into table with CDC.
CREATE STREAM s2 ON TABLE sales APPEND_ONLY = TRUE;   -- Append-Only Stream (track only inserts).
CREATE STREAM s3 ON VIEW my_view;    -- Tracks changes from underlying tables.
 
Raw Table (landing) -> Stream (CDC) -> Task (scheduled or triggered) -> Clean Table (analytics-ready).



Micro-partitions:



variables:
set id = (select count(*) from employee_tgt);
select $id;


unset id;
